>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's go through
exercise4 about Merging and ReReRe.
At this point you should have the advanced
git exercises repository cloned locally.
Now let's check out the exercise4 branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The first
thing we wanna demonstrate
is a fast forward commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we take a look at
our log, we'll see that
we're on the initial commit.
We have exercise3, our feature branch and
we have a new commit in that one.
So if we try to merge it into exercise4,
let's try to do that with a regular
merge.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
we'll see here that Git
did a fast-forward commit.
If we look at our history again,
we'll see that,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll see
that the branch pointer has been updated.
>> Nina Zakharenko: But
there's nothing saying that this commit
was associated with a different exercise.
In this case exercise3.
And we're gonna want a little
bit more information.
Remember that fast forward
commits happen when the branches,
the base branch, the one, that you branch
from, doesn't have any additional commits.
It hasn't changed since
you branched from it.
And that history is linear.
Let's try a non-fast forward
commit to show the difference.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm going to
reset to the previous head, and
we're gonna go through git reset
in detail in a few in a few hours.
I'm sorry, in a few sections,
not in a few hours.
I'm not trapping you guys here forever,
I promise.
What we did here is reset to
the commit before our merge.
Now let's try to open, I'm sorry,
let's try to merge the commit
with the no fast forward flag.
So before we git merge exercise3,
and now we're gonna try it
with the no fast forward flag.
This is gonna open
an editor in your terminal.
If you're having problems with your
editor, go back to the beginning.
You'll see a section for prerequisites.
It's very important to set up your editor.
It will make working
with Git a lot easier.
This is the editor that I use, Emacs.
And it opened commit saying, this is the
merge of branch exercise3 into exercise4.
And we'll see that the merge was
made by the recursive strategy
instead of the fast forward commit.
I'm sorry,
instead of the fast forward merge.
And now when I look at my log again,
I'll see this new merge commit here.
And I can make that even clearer
by using the --graph flag for log.
We'll see here this was the commit
made on a different branch,
and here it is being merged back.
>> Speaker 2: What's
the extent of the auto fast forwarding?
Like, if you have a base and you branch
it, make a commit and branch that, and
make another commit, so you're kind
of say a branch away from base.
And nothing's been done.
So if you were to merge that into base,
would it
automatically fast forward kinda across?
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you were to merge
the very last branch.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You'll have to verify
this, I've never done that.
But it should just work.
Yeah, Git should know about the history
from that very first branch.
So this is an example of
a no fast forward commit.
Now let's set up for a conflict.
We're gonna check out another branch.
Whoops, we're on exercise4.
We're going to Git check out
a new branch called mundo.
For those who don't know,
mundo is world in Spanish.
So we're gonna try a different
version of our Hello world.
So we're going to edit our text file and
I'll just use echo for this example
here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
now if we look at our hello.txt,
we'll see it says Hello Mundo!
If we do our git status,
we'll see that hello was modified.
And let's add it and do a commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
back on our exercise4 branch.
The one we were working on before.
And quick shortcut.
For those of you who switch branches lots,
if you wanna switch to the previous
branch that you were just on, you can
do that with the dash as a shortcut.
Since exercise4 was
the branch I was just on,
I'm gonna check it out.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I'm gonna edit my hello.txt again.
So now it's gonna say, Hello World.
And I'm gonna commit that.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Actually,
I want it to say, Hola World.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I'm gonna commit that
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great,
so let's check out how git rerere
can help us with merge conflicts.
We're going to turn it on.
In this case it's git
config rerere.enabled true.
If I want to turn it on for all projects,
remember that I can pass
in the global flag here.
I'm gonna try mundo and
I'm gonna get a merge conflict.
But let's notice this line.
It says recorded preimage for hello.txt.
We can do git rerere diff
to see what's going on.
And that shows us our merge conflict.
In one version we have Hello Mundo,
in the other version, we have Hello World.
And this shows us what
the current state is of
the resolution
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
resolve that conflict.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I wanna change it so
that it says, Hola Mundo.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great, so
now if I look at my text file,
it has the right thing in it.
If I do git rerere diff
>> Nina Zakharenko: It'll
show me,
>> Nina Zakharenko: What the recorded
resolution would be right
here at the bottom.
Now let's git add that,
>> Nina Zakharenko: And commit it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Cool, and
now we'll see this message right here,
Recorded resolution for 'hello.txt'.
Let's back up and merge again and
we'll see what ReReRe does for us.
We're going to git reset
back to the previous commit.
And we're gonna try to
merge in window again.
We'll see that there is a conflict.
But here Git's telling us it used ReReRe
to resolve, using a previous resolution.
If we look at the git status,
we'll see that hello.txt is modified.
But if we look at the file,
we'll see that it used our
previously recorded resolution.
All we need to do is stage hello.txt and
commit it again.
So ReReRe is powerful.
It doesn't do anything for you,
you still get to review the purposed,
the recorded resolution before you
commit it but it will save you tons and
tons of time,
one of my absolute favorite tools.